Add vibration integration documentation (#46706)
home-assistant/home-assistant.github.io: source/_conditions/vibration.is_detected.markdown

---
title: "Vibration is detected"
condition: vibration.is_detected
domain: vibration
description: "Tests if one or more vibration sensors are detecting vibration."
related_conditions:
  - vibration.is_not_detected
---

The **Vibration is detected** condition passes when one or more vibration sensors are detecting vibration. Use it in an automation to act only while something is shaking or running, such as holding off a quiet-hours routine while an appliance is still working, or sending an alert if a machine is running when it should not be.

{% include conditions/ui_header.md %}

To use this condition in an automation:

1. Go to {% my automations title="**Settings** > **Automations & scenes**" %}.
2. Open an existing automation, or select **Create automation** > **Create new automation**.
3. In the **And if** section, select **Add condition**.
4. From the search box, search for and select **Vibration is detected**.

> 5. Under **Targets** (see [Targets](#targets)), select one or more vibration entities, devices, an area, a floor, or a label.

Author: What do you think about this suggestion @Laufmaschine? I agree there's an inconsistency, but I'm actually leaning towards referring to "vibration entities" everywhere over "vibration sensors".

> 5. Under **Targets** (see [Targets](#targets)), select one or more vibration entities, devices, an area, a floor, or a label.

Reviewer: I agree with you, it is ok to use entities here because a sensor is always represented by an entity and actually preferable because it is an entity that can be picked. You can also write "sensor entities" to specify, but I don´t think you need to replace sensors by entities everywhere.

{% example %}
condition: |
  condition: vibration.is_detected
  target:
    entity_id: binary_sensor.dishwasher_vibration
  options:
    for: "00:05:00"
{% endexample %}

This passes when the entity `binary_sensor.dishwasher_vibration` has been continuously detecting vibration for 5 minutes.

### Options in YAML

YAML sometimes provides additional options for more complex use cases that are not available through the UI.

{% options_yaml %}
behavior:
  description: >
    When multiple vibration sensors are targeted, controls how results combine. Accepts `all` or `any`.
  required: false
  type: string
  default: any
for:
  description: >
    How long one or more vibration sensors must be continuously detecting vibration before the condition passes. Accepts a duration string in `HH:MM:SS` format.
  required: false
  type: string
  default: "00:00:00"
{% endoptions_yaml %}

{% include conditions/targets.md %}

{% include conditions/behavior.md %}

## Good to know

- With the **For at least** option, the timer resets if the sensor stops detecting vibration during that period. This helps confirm a machine is really running before acting.

> - A vibration sensor reports movement, not what caused it. In a busy spot, brief vibrations from nearby activity can make the condition pass, so choose the sensor placement and **For at least** value to match.

Reviewer: Seems that something is missing here:
```suggestion
- A vibration sensor reports movement, not what caused it. In a busy spot, brief vibrations from nearby activity can make the condition pass, so choose the sensor placement and **For at least** value to match your needs.
```

Author: What I meant here is "choose the sensor placement and the value to match [the sensor placement]", but your suggestion is fine too. Let me know what you prefer!

Reviewer: Ah, thanks for clarifying! Then to make it clear ("to match" might be vague for some readers) I would suggest:
```suggestion
- A vibration sensor reports movement, not what caused it. In a busy spot, brief vibrations from nearby activity can make the condition pass, so choose the sensor placement and a **For at least** duration long enough to ignore those brief vibrations."
```

Author: Cool, I'll get it adjusted!
